namaste friends I am British and today
our topic is Patanjali Yoga friends
little is known about the author of yoga
Sutra almost everything about him is
unknown most basic biographical details
are disputed and there are few
mycological stories the question comes
this Patanjali the father of yoga let's
delve into this question many sacred
ancient texts including the Bhagavad
Gita
the Vedas and the Upanishads to mention
yoga but none of the ancient texts
specialized in the philosophy of yoga
like the Yoga Sutras of Patanjali a
great philosopher a grammarian he is a
mind psychologist he systematically
organized in fact he compiled the yoga
sutras so now in let us talk about the
birth of Patanjali
so friends legend says that adishesha
the serpent the carrier of wisdom in
fact one of the many incarnations of
Vishnu
so when Vishnu was like da la medicina
the serpent which neut was visualizing
the dance of Shiva while visualizing the
dance of Shiva Vishnu s body was
trembling and then trembling was even
felled by the serpent initiation and
that is where a lot of discomfort was
happening to the serpent after Shiva
ended his dance
Adi shisha wanted to know why Vishnu's
body was trembling
then vishnu talked about the dance of
Shiva and that is where a decision
requested vishnu that even he wants to
learn the dance of Shiva
now for that a decision would have to
take a human form and there is where
Vishnu thought of incarnated a decision
into the form of a human being at the
same time a virtuous woman
Kanika one of the devotees of yoga one
of the practitioners of yoga wanted to
pass her wisdom her knowledge of yoga to
someone worthy as a life was coming to
an end and she was praying to the Lord
son that please give me a worthy son
wherein I can trust for my knowledge my
wisdom to the one with responsible and
as she was in the river with the paths
open the palms are also known as anchovy
so she was praying to the Lord and that
is where a serpent falls into the path
and the falling of something is not as
passed and she was in the form of Anjali
that was potentially and then in May she
transferred all her knowledge of yoga
and wisdom to Patanjali and here the
birth of petha chili comes
nothing compares to Patanjali he has
made enlightenment as a science no
beliefs are required whether you're a
Christian whether you're Muslim or a
Hindu anyone can follow this path at no
point of time in this scriptures in the
Yoga Sutras he have ever mentioned about
any of the religions of Hindu he just
talks about this is the path follow
these paths
follow these sequence and you will
attain Samadhi and that is the reason he
had moved made four chapters first one
is Samadhi that is enlightenment and
concentration second is sadhna the way
that method the third is we booty
different power supernatural powers
attained when you do this and the last
says Cavalia that is the moksha
liberation so friends the four chapters
in the next videos I will be talking
about these four chapters with a little
bit more greater detail with the Sutra
that is after yoga asana in samadhi
pollen and the astanga-yoga
in sadhana path friends in case you
liked my video don't forget to hit the
like but I do subscribe in case you have
any comments or suggestions please
mention in the comment section below
[Music]